First draft of the Graph guidelines (#303)
Microsoft/api-guidelines: graph/Modelling with Facets Pattern.md

# Facets Pattern

Microsoft Graph API Design Pattern

### *A frequent pattern in Microsoft Graph is to model multiple variants of a common concept as a single entity type with common properties and facets for variants.*

## Problem
API designer needs to model a set of heterogeneous resources that have common properties and behaviors, and may express features of multiple variants at a time because variants are not mutually exclusive.

> For example a movie clip stored on OneDrive is a file and have additional properties for the video variant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example a movie clip stored on OneDrive is both a file and a video. There are properties associated to each variant.
```

## Solution

> API designers creates multiple complex types to bundle properties for each variant then define entity type with common properties across variants and one property of complex type per variant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API designers create multiple complex types to bundle properties for each variant then define an entity type with a property for each complex type to hold the properties of the variant.
```

> In this solution a child variant is identified by a presence of one or multiple facets in the parent object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this solution a child variant is identified by a presence of one or more facets in the parent object.
```

        <Property Name="folder" Type="graph.folder" />
        <Property Name="image" Type="graph.image" />
        <Property Name="location" Type="graph.geoCoordinates" />
        <Property Name="malware" Type="graph.malware" />
        <Property Name="media" Type="graph.media" />
        <Property Name="package" Type="graph.package" />
        <Property Name="pendingOperations" Type="graph.pendingOperations" />
        <Property Name="photo" Type="graph.photo" />
        <Property Name="publication" Type="graph.publicationFacet" />
        <Property Name="remoteItem" Type="graph.remoteItem" />
        <Property Name="root" Type="graph.root" />
        <Property Name="searchResult" Type="graph.searchResult" />
        <Property Name="shared" Type="graph.shared" />
        <Property Name="sharepointIds" Type="graph.sharepointIds" />
        <Property Name="size" Type="Edm.Int64" />
        <Property Name="source" Type="graph.driveItemSource" />
        <Property Name="specialFolder" Type="graph.specialFolder" />
        <Property Name="video" Type="graph.video" />
        <Property Name="webDavUrl" Type="Edm.String" />
     ...
      </EntityType>
```

> API request to get all items from a personal OneDrive will return a hetereogenius collection with different facets populated. In the example below there is a folder,a file and an image in the collection. The image entity has two facets populated: file and image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API request to get all items from a personal OneDrive will return a heterogenous collection with different facets populated. In the example below there is a folder, a file and an image in the collection. The image entity has two facets populated: file and image.
```

# Type Hierarchy 

Microsoft Graph API Design Pattern

 

*A frequent pattern in Microsoft Graph is to have a small type hierarchy, a base type with a few subtypes. This allows us to model collections of objects that have slightly different metadata and behavior.*
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Context

Let’s assume you need to model an API to manage groups in an
organization, where employees can create groups and become owners of the
group by default. At the same time to support business processes some
groups may be created automatically by daemon applications using a

> service principal account. In this case the service principle will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
service principal account. In this case the service principal will
```
